readme.md, before:

# Smooch-Slack Dispatcher

This is code for a Slack bot that can be used to dispatch custom alerts to a specified channel based on the content of Smooch messages.

Example uses are:
- Listening to specific phrases from Smooch appUsers
- Alerting agents that a bot is ready to hand the conversation off to a human

For an in-depth tutorial skip down to [Tutorial](#tutorial).

## Local setup

* Clone the repository

* Run `npm i` in the smooch-slack-dispatch directory

* Create a _.env_ file and provide the required [environment variables](#environment-variables)

* Run `npm start` to start the service

* Use a service like ngrok.io to expose endpoint for webhook events

* Configure the events array at the top of the _events.js_ file.

## Deployment

### Deploy to Heroku

Set environment variables for Heroku app and push whole repository to Heroku.

### Deploy to AWS Lambda

Copy the entire contents of _events.js_ as a AWS Lambda function, set environment variables in AWS Lambda config, and expose the function as an open AWS Lambda API Gateway endpoint.

## Environment Variables

Smooch-Slack dispatch requires that you configure a few environment variables.

| Variable                | Description |
|-------------------------|-------------|
| **VERIFICATION_TOKEN** `optional` | A secret token sent by slack with Webhook events to secure your event endpoint. Can be omitted for testing, but endpoint will be insecure. |
| **ACCESS_TOKEN** `required`       | A token for calling the Slack API. |
| **DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID** `required` | The canonical ID for the Slack channel where dispatch messages should be sent. |
| **CLIENT_ID** `required for setup`       | Client ID for Slack app, used in Oauth process. |
| **CLIENT_SECRET** `required for setup` | Client secret for Slack app, used in Oauth process. |

## Tutorial

Prerequisites
- A [Smooch account](https://smooch.io/)
- A Slack team connected to your Smooch account. See [this guide](https://docs.smooch.io/guide/business-quickstart/) on setting up Smooch.

### Step 1 - local set up:

* Clone this repository, `npm install` dependencies, and create an empty _.env_ file.

* Install and run [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/), or use some other tools that can expose a local server to the Web.

* Expose port 8000 for Web traffic `ngrok http 8000`, and start Smooch-Slack Dispatcher with `npm start`. You should now have a service listening on port 8000, and exposed to traffic.

### Step 2 - create and configure a Slack app:

* Navigate to https://api.slack.com/apps and create a new app.

![Create a new Slack app](images/new-slack-app.jpg)

* Now, on your new app's dashboard, navigate down to _Event Subscriptions_ and enter your ngrok url followed by a /events route in the _Request URL_ field.

* Below that, hit the _Add Team Event_ button, select _message.channels_ and save changes.

![Add subscription event](images/add-subscription-event.jpg)

* Still in our Slack app's dashboard, navigate up to _Basic Information_ and copy all of the keys into your _.env_ file, using _.env.example_ as a guide.

* The contents of your _.env_ file should now look something like this:
    ```
    VERIFICATION_TOKEN="HOwBOk5mRP2dVimpV&Bgv6Im9"
    CLIENT_ID="144583240868.1393840943209"
    CLIENT_SECRET="b5e0d42334b2d52c79l5os76e4f7606"
    ACCESS_TOKEN=""
    DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID=""
    ```

### Step 3 - authorize the app to your Slack team

* Now, restart your server so that the environment variables are available, and navigate down to _Oauth & Permissions_. Here we're going to add our service URL at the /redirect route.

![Redirect URL](images/oauth-redirect-url.jpg)

* In your browser visit localhost:8000/auth to add the app to your Slack team.

* Once you complete the Oauth process, go visit your terminal once again. There you'll find something like this:
    ```
    OAUTH ACCESS { ok: true,
      access_token: 'xoxp-18974539874-20938543-1023450954390534-8f26888a9aeeac27bd2f5ed89becb5e9',
      scope: 'identify,incoming-webhook,channels:history',
      user_id: 'U47PFALE4',
      team_name: 'Stasi from Smooch',
      team_id: 'S48J4QQPJ',
      incoming_webhook:
       { channel: '#general',
         channel_id: 'C46MX3VAQ',
         configuration_url: 'https://smooch-dispatch.slack.com/services/B491XPR1T',
         url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/services/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' } }
    ```

* Grab the values of `access_token` and `channel_id` and add them to your .env file as ACCESS_TOKEN and DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID. Your .env file should now look like this:
    ```
    CLIENT_ID="144583240868.1393840943209"
    CLIENT_SECRET="b5e0d42334b2d52c79l5os76e4f7606"
    VERIFICATION_TOKEN="HOwBOk5mRP2dVimpV&Bgv6Im9"
    ACCESS_TOKEN="xoxp-18974539874-20938543-1023450954390534-8f26888a9aeeac27bd2f5ed89becb5e9"
    DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID="C46MX3VAQ"
    ```

* Restart your server so that the environment variables are available, and start a conversation between a user and your help desk on slack. If the user sends their email address as a message, you'll receive a notification in the dispatch channel. ![example dispatch message](images/example-dispatch.jpg)

* To adjust the triggers and alerts, edit the `events` array in _events.js_.

### Deploy Option 1 - deploy to Heroku:

#### Heroku instructions

If you've never used Heroku before, or you need refresher, here's [a great guide](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-nodejs#introduction).

Assuming you have a Heroku account and the toolbelt installed, to deploy Smooch to Heroku:
First, create a new app, for example: `heroku create smooch-slack-dispatch`.

Then set your environment variables, for example:
`heroku config:set VERIFICATION_TOKEN="HOwBOk5mRP2dVimpV&Bgv6Im9"  ACCESS_TOKEN="xoxp-18974539874-20938543-1023450954390534-8f26888a9aeeac27bd2f5ed89becb5e9" DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID="C46MX3VAQ"`.

Push your code to Heroku: `git push heroku master`

#### Slack instructions

Finally, in your Slack app settings, under event subscriptions, set a new redirect URL to your Heroku service, e.g. https://smooch-slack-dispatcher.herokuapp.com/events, and save changes.

### Deploy Option 2 - deploy to AWS Lambda:

#### Lambda instructions

* If you don't already have one, get an AWS account, and then open the Lambda service from the AWS service console.

* Create a new Lambda function and select _Blank Function_ as a blueprint.

![create lambda](images/lambda-select-blueprint.png)

* Don't select a trigger yet (click next if prompted to select a trigger).

![trigger configuration step](images/lambda-configure-triggers.png)

* Name your function and select a Node.js runtime.

* Copy/paste the contents of _events.js_ into the Lambda function code field.

* Below the code field, define `ACCESS_TOKEN`, `DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID`, and `VERIFICATION_TOKEN` as environment variables.

![environment variables](images/lambda-environment-variables.png)

* Under _Lambda function handler and role_ select _create new role from template_ in the _Role_ dropdown, and then name your new role.

* Then click _Next_ at the bottom of the screen, and then _Create Function_.

#### API Gateway instructions

* Open the API Gateway service from the AWS service console, and create a new API.

* Under resources, select the `/` resource and from the actions dropdown select _create resource_. Name it whatever you like.

![create new resource](images/api-gateway-new-resource.png)

* Select your new resource and then from the actions dropdown select create method. Select POST as a method, and hit the checkmark. Now select your _Lambda Region_ and _Lambda Function_, and save.

![create new method](images/api-gateway-new-method.png)

* From the actions dropdown select _Deploy API_, create a new stage and complete the deployment.

![deploy api](images/api-gateway-deploy.png)

* From the menu of the far left, select _stages_ (below _resources_), select the POST method you created for and copy the _Invoke URL_.

![get invoke url](images/api-gateway-invoke-url.png)

#### Slack instructions

Finally, in your Slack app settings, under event subscriptions, set a new redirect URL to the API Gateway invoke URL, e.g. https://c0gblghboj5.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/production/events, and save changes.

Commit message:

Add product shot and todo list

readme.md, after:

# Smooch-Slack Dispatcher

![product shot](images/product-shot.png)

This is code for a Slack bot that can be used to dispatch custom alerts to a specified channel based on the content of Smooch messages.

Example uses are:
- Listening to specific phrases from Smooch appUsers
- Alerting agents that a bot is ready to hand the conversation off to a human

For a step by step tutorial, including deployment, skip down to [Tutorial](#tutorial).

## Local setup

* Clone the repository

* Run `npm i` in the smooch-slack-dispatch directory

* Create a _.env_ file and provide the required [environment variables](#environment-variables)

* Run `npm start` to start the service

* Use a service like ngrok.io to expose endpoint for webhook events

* Configure the events array at the top of the _events.js_ file.

## Deployment

### Deploy to Heroku

Set environment variables for Heroku app and push whole repository to Heroku.

### Deploy to AWS Lambda

Copy the entire contents of _events.js_ as a AWS Lambda function, set environment variables in AWS Lambda config, and expose the function as an AWS Lambda API Gateway endpoint.

## Environment Variables

Smooch-Slack dispatch requires that you configure a few environment variables.

| Variable                | Description |
|-------------------------|-------------|
| **VERIFICATION_TOKEN** `optional` | A secret token sent by slack with Webhook events to secure your event endpoint. Can be omitted for testing, but endpoint will be insecure. |
| **ACCESS_TOKEN** `required`       | A token for calling the Slack API. |
| **DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID** `required` | The canonical ID for the Slack channel where dispatch messages should be sent. |
| **CLIENT_ID** `required for setup`       | Client ID for Slack app, used in Oauth process. |
| **CLIENT_SECRET** `required for setup` | Client secret for Slack app, used in Oauth process. |

---

# Tutorial

Prerequisites
- A [Smooch account](https://smooch.io/)
- A Slack team connected to your Smooch account. See [this guide](https://docs.smooch.io/guide/business-quickstart/) on setting up Smooch.

## Step 1 - local set up:

* Clone this repository, `npm install` dependencies, and create an empty _.env_ file.

* Install and run [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/), or use some other tools that can expose a local server to the Web.

* Expose port 8000 for Web traffic `ngrok http 8000`, and start Smooch-Slack Dispatcher with `npm start`. You should now have a service listening on port 8000, and exposed to traffic.

## Step 2 - create and configure a Slack app:

* Navigate to https://api.slack.com/apps and create a new app.

![Create a new Slack app](images/new-slack-app.jpg)

* Now, on your new app's dashboard, navigate down to _Event Subscriptions_ and enter your ngrok url followed by a /events route in the _Request URL_ field.

* Below that, hit the _Add Team Event_ button, select _message.channels_ and save changes.

![Add subscription event](images/add-subscription-event.jpg)

* Still in our Slack app's dashboard, navigate up to _Basic Information_ and copy all of the keys into your _.env_ file, using _.env.example_ as a guide.

* The contents of your _.env_ file should now look something like this:
    ```
    VERIFICATION_TOKEN="HOwBOk5mRP2dVimpV&Bgv6Im9"
    CLIENT_ID="144583240868.1393840943209"
    CLIENT_SECRET="b5e0d42334b2d52c79l5os76e4f7606"
    ACCESS_TOKEN=""
    DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID=""
    ```

## Step 3 - authorize the app to your Slack team

* Now, restart your server so that the environment variables are available, and navigate down to _Oauth & Permissions_. Here we're going to add our service URL at the /redirect route.

![Redirect URL](images/oauth-redirect-url.jpg)

* In your browser visit localhost:8000/auth to add the app to your Slack team.

* Once you complete the Oauth process, go visit your terminal once again. There you'll find something like this:
    ```
    OAUTH ACCESS { ok: true,
      access_token: 'xoxp-18974539874-20938543-1023450954390534-8f26888a9aeeac27bd2f5ed89becb5e9',
      scope: 'identify,incoming-webhook,channels:history',
      user_id: 'U47PFALE4',
      team_name: 'Stasi from Smooch',
      team_id: 'S48J4QQPJ',
      incoming_webhook:
       { channel: '#general',
         channel_id: 'C46MX3VAQ',
         configuration_url: 'https://smooch-dispatch.slack.com/services/B491XPR1T',
         url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/services/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' } }
    ```

* Grab the values of `access_token` and `channel_id` and add them to your .env file as ACCESS_TOKEN and DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID. Your .env file should now look like this:
    ```
    CLIENT_ID="144583240868.1393840943209"
    CLIENT_SECRET="b5e0d42334b2d52c79l5os76e4f7606"
    VERIFICATION_TOKEN="HOwBOk5mRP2dVimpV&Bgv6Im9"
    ACCESS_TOKEN="xoxp-18974539874-20938543-1023450954390534-8f26888a9aeeac27bd2f5ed89becb5e9"
    DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID="C46MX3VAQ"
    ```

* Restart your server so that the environment variables are available, and start a conversation between a user and your help desk on slack. If the user sends their email address as a message, you'll receive a notification in the dispatch channel. ![example dispatch message](images/example-dispatch.jpg)

* To adjust the triggers and alerts, edit the `events` array in _events.js_.

## Deploy Option 1 - deploy to Heroku:

### Heroku instructions

If you've never used Heroku before, or you need refresher, here's [a great guide](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-nodejs#introduction).

Assuming you have a Heroku account and the toolbelt installed, to deploy Smooch to Heroku:
First, create a new app, for example: `heroku create smooch-slack-dispatch`.

Then set your environment variables, for example:
`heroku config:set VERIFICATION_TOKEN="HOwBOk5mRP2dVimpV&Bgv6Im9"  ACCESS_TOKEN="xoxp-18974539874-20938543-1023450954390534-8f26888a9aeeac27bd2f5ed89becb5e9" DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID="C46MX3VAQ"`.

Push your code to Heroku: `git push heroku master`

### Slack instructions

Finally, in your Slack app settings, under event subscriptions, set a new redirect URL to your Heroku service, e.g. https://smooch-slack-dispatcher.herokuapp.com/events, and save changes.

## Deploy Option 2 - deploy to AWS Lambda:

### Lambda instructions

* If you don't already have one, get an AWS account, and then open the Lambda service from the AWS service console.

* Create a new Lambda function and select _Blank Function_ as a blueprint.

![create lambda](images/lambda-select-blueprint.png)

* Don't select a trigger yet (click next if prompted to select a trigger).

![trigger configuration step](images/lambda-configure-triggers.png)

* Name your function and select a Node.js runtime.

* Copy/paste the contents of _events.js_ into the Lambda function code field.

* Below the code field, define `ACCESS_TOKEN`, `DISPATCH_CHANNEL_ID`, and `VERIFICATION_TOKEN` as environment variables.

![environment variables](images/lambda-environment-variables.png)

* Under _Lambda function handler and role_ select _create new role from template_ in the _Role_ dropdown, and then name your new role.

* Then click _Next_ at the bottom of the screen, and then _Create Function_.

### API Gateway instructions

* Open the API Gateway service from the AWS service console, and create a new API.

* Under resources, select the `/` resource and from the actions dropdown select _create resource_. Name it whatever you like.

![create new resource](images/api-gateway-new-resource.png)

* Select your new resource and then from the actions dropdown select create method. Select POST as a method, and hit the checkmark. Now select your _Lambda Region_ and _Lambda Function_, and save.

![create new method](images/api-gateway-new-method.png)

* From the actions dropdown select _Deploy API_, create a new stage and complete the deployment.

![deploy api](images/api-gateway-deploy.png)

* From the menu of the far left, select _stages_ (below _resources_), select the POST method you created for and copy the _Invoke URL_.

![get invoke url](images/api-gateway-invoke-url.png)

### Slack instructions

Finally, in your Slack app settings, under event subscriptions, set a new redirect URL to the API Gateway invoke URL, e.g. https://c0gblghboj5.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/production/events, and save changes.

---

# TODO

- Give the bot an image on Slack

- Filter out non _sk-_ channels (?)

- Provide some context in alert message
